Proxmox-Install-Setup


Install:


The first thing you’re going to need is a USB drive with at least 2GB of space. This is going to be our bootable USB. The second thing you’re going to need is a machine to be your dedicated Proxmox server. I will be using a Beelink S12 Pro Mini PC, with an Intel 12th Gen Alder Lake-N100 processor, 16GB RAM, and 500 GB SSD. Feel free to use any old laptop or PC that you have lying around though, this is a great way to repurpose an old machine, and depending on how many VMs you’ll want to spin up you won’t need as powerful of a machine as I’ll be using but I would recommend 16GB RAM minimum to support multiple VMs and containers. 
Step 1 Download the Proxmox ISO Installer (download the latest version) -  https://www.proxmox.com/en/downloads/proxmox-virtual-environment/iso

Step 2 Download a USB imaging software for this tutorial I will be using Rufus but there are other options such as BalenaEtcher.  https://rufus.ie/en/


Step 3 Create your bootable USB. (WARNING make sure there are no files you need on this USB or that they are backed up because they will be deleted during this process) In the device pain make sure you have your USB selected “Multiple Partitions” Then click the select Button and find your Proxmox ISO file. Now click Start and click through the two warnings about data being deleted. 
 

Step 4 Insert the bootable Proxmox USB into the laptop or PC that you want to install it on. (Be aware that this device will now be a dedicated Proxmox server so any previous operating system and files you have on it will be deleted.) Turn on your PC or laptop with the USB plugged in and press F7 or Delete repeatedly (you may need to look up which button to press depending on your PC) until you’ve reached the boot menu. Select Boot from USB and choose the drive from the available options. Now you will be at the Proxmox main install page. There are 3 options we will be going with the Terminal UI Graphical.
-    Now press agree 
-    Select the Target Hard disk 
-    Select language, country, and keyboard setup
-    Create a root password and Admin email 
-    Select a name for your server and an IP address that isn’t already taken on your network. You can check your gateway and DNS IP in the console of your main PC if needed. (ipconfig /all) I used the default 192.168.1.6:8006/
-    Click install 
BE SURE to document the IP address that it shows you for me it is 192.168.1.6:8006/ This is how you will access your Proxmox server from your main PC or other PCs on your network. 
The server will restart, and you will be prompted to input the login NOTE the default login is root and then you can use the password you set up earlier in these steps. 
            	Press Enter and now we can access our Proxmox Server from a web browser on the main PC of our network. 




Proxmox Setup:


-      Open your web browser on your main PC on your network and type in https://192.168.1.6:8006/ you will see a warning but fear not everything is working as planned. It just means that you don’t have an SSL certificate on your server. But it's your server so you can trust it. Hit advanced and then proceed. 

-     You will not be prompted to log in. Remember your login in root with the password you created earlier. Hit enter and you will be prompted with a No Valid Subscription. Just hit okay. Proxmox is free but offers a subscription for users who would like customer support. We can remove this subscription warning later. 
Congratulations! You’ve Successfully installed Proxmox. Time to do some initial setup! 
Enable updates: This will be done on the actual server and not on your main PC so keep your monitor and keyboard from installation hooked up. Eventually, you will be able to unplug them and have a headless server.

Step 1 Edit the sources lists for updates. At the root@whatyounamedyourserver type 
nano /etc/apt/sources.list 

-	Scroll down and add a line for the non-production updates, this is for updates when we do not have a subscription. 
deb http://download.proxmox.com/debian buster pve-no-subscription
now press control-X and then Y for yes and then enter to save changes. 

Step 2 Now we want to edit the enterprise list. At the root@whatyounamedyourserver type
Nano /etc/apt/sources.list.d/pve-enterprise.list 
- Comment out this line. And then save. (only comment this line out if you don’t have a subscription) commenting this out will make it so we don’t get errors when we update. 

Step 3 update our list and distribution.
-	apt-get update
-	apt dist-upgrade                                                            press Y to accept
-	reboot


Configure Storage: for single hard drive server. This will be done on your main PC through the Proxmox GUI, NOT in the console on the actual server monitor like the last steps

Step 1 click on the named server you created on the left panel of the Proxmox GUI. You should see a local (nameofyourserver) and a local-lvm(nameofyourserver). Local-lvm has a bunch of storage that we can’t use but we need so we are going to delete it. 
-	Click on Datacenter on the left-hand side and then select Storage. 
-	In the main window you will see local and local lvm. Select local lvm and then click the remove tab, click yes. 
-	Click on your server’s name on the left-hand side then select Shell (we are going to do the next steps in the console of your server)
-	Type     lvremove /dev/pve/data    then select Yes.
-	Now we must resize our main storage so type lvresize -l +100%FREE /dev/pve/root      (notice that we have now moved all the unused storage into one place that we can now utilize it. 
-	Now type resize2fs /dev/mapper/pve-root
-	Go back to the Proxmox GUI and select your local storage and notice that now you have all the storage in one place and it’s usable! 






 


